# Indico's CKEditor 5 custom build

This repository presents the Indico's CKEditor 5 custom editor build generated by the [Online builder tool](https://ckeditor.com/ckeditor-5/online-builder)

## Configuring build

Changes like changing toolbar items, changing order of icons or customizing plugin configurations should be relatively easy to make. Open the `sample/index.html` file and edit the script that initialized the CKEditor 5. Save the file and refresh the browser. That's all.

_Note:_ If you have any problems with browser caching use the `Ctrl + R` or `Cmd + R` shortcut depending on your system.

However if you want to remove or add a plugin to the build you need to follow the next step of this guide.

Note that it is also possible to go back to the [Online builder tool](https://ckeditor.com/ckeditor-5/online-builder) and pick other set of plugins. But we encourage you to try the harder way and to learn the principles of Node.js and CKEditor 5 ecosystems that will allow you to do more cool things in the future!

### Installation

In order to rebuild the application you need to install all dependencies first. To do it, open the terminal in the project directory and type:

```
npm ci
```

Make sure that you have the `node` and `npm` installed first. If not, then follow the instructions on the [Node.js documentation page](https://nodejs.org/en/).

### Adding or removing plugins

Now you can install additional plugin in the build. Just follow the [Adding a plugin to an editor tutorial](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/builds/guides/integration/installing-plugins.html#adding-a-plugin-to-an-editor)

### Rebuilding editor

If you have already done the [Installation](#installation) and [Adding or removing plugins](#adding-or-removing-plugins) steps, you're ready to rebuild the editor by running the following command:

```
npm run build
```

This will build the CKEditor 5 to the `build` directory. You can open your browser and you should be able to see the changes you've made in the code. If not, then try to refresh also the browser cache by typing `Ctrl + R` or `Cmd + R` depending on your system.

## Releasing a new build

1. Update the `master` branch with the desired changes and checkout into `release`:

```shell
git checkout release
git rebase master
```

2. Create a new build, bump the version in `package.json` and commit the new changes:

```shell
npm run build
git add build/
git commit -m "Release <version>" # Replace with new version
git push origin release
```

Afterwards the CI will take care of publishing a new tag and release.
